---
id: billing-pricing
title: Pricing
description: Pricing of RisingWave Cloud services.
slug: /pricing
---

RisingWave Cloud bills are based on the plans and the consumption of resources within your cloud organization. The bill is generated by adding up the cost of each cluster. 

## Pricing model

RisingWave Cloud charges the cost of each cluster. The pricing model of each cluster varies depending on its plan. Billing for each RisingWave cluster accrues at 15-minute intervals, at a precision of 30 seconds. These intervals are aligned with the quarters of an hour. All billing computations are conducted in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). 

| Plan | Pricing model | Pricing precision |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Developer | Fixed price | Daily basis |
| Standard | Pay-as-you-go | 30-second basis |
| Invited | Contact sales | Contact sales |

### Developer

Each developer cluster is given a 7-day trial period. After that, the cluster is charged $99 per month, with no additional storage cost or other cost included, regardless of the region. If the billing period does not start on the 1st day of a calendar month, the daily base price is set to be $99 divided by the number of days in that calendar month: 

- **Pro-rated daily charges**: If you initiate or terminate services mid-month, daily charges apply. For instance, the Developer plan, which is $99 a month, would incur a daily fee of around $3.3.

| Month | Price |
| --- | --- |
| January | $3.19/day |
| February (non-leap year) | $3.54/day |
| February (leap year) | $3.41/day |
| March | $3.19/day |
| April | $3.3/day |
| May | $3.19/day |
| June | $3.3/day |
| July | $3.19/day |
| August | $3.19/day |
| September | $3.3/day |
| October | $3.19/day |
| November | $3.3/day |
| December | $3.19/day |

### Standard

For the clusters in the standard service, you only pay for your actual usage. The bill consists of two parts: the compute resources and the storage capacity. 

- **Compute resources.** RisingWave Cloud measures the RWU-hours used across all clusters in the organization. See the explanation of RWU below.  In each RisingWave cluster, the usages are tracked for all five components:
    - Compute node.
    - Frontend node.
    - Meta node.
    - Compactor node.
    - ETCD.
- **Storage capacity**. RisingWave Cloud bills the storage in per GB-month increments at a second rate. You pay for the storage capacity of the data your RisingWave cluster persisted during stream processing, such as tables, materialized views, and internal states.

### Invited

The billings for invited clusters are not reported in the billing system. We will track the usage in the backend and generate an invoice based on a customized base price. The pricing model is the same as the standard service, however we will provide a customized offer based on your demand. Please contact our sales for your customized offer. 

## RisingWave Unit (RWU)

In RisingWave Cloud, RWUs are the fundamental measure of computational resource allocation and pricing. An RWU represents a pre-allocated bundle of computational resources, specifically designed to facilitate horizontal scalability in your data processing operations. One RWU roughly comprises 1 core vCPU and 4 GB of memory. All components within a RisingWave cluster are charged for the usage measured by RWU-hour, where 1 RWU-hour is equivalent to possessing one RWU for one hour. 

## Pricing table

Below is the pricing table of the compute resources and storage capacity in the standard service. For invited clusters in the enterprise offer, please contact our sales for your customized offer. 

| Vendor | Region | Compute (per RWU-hour) | Storage (per GB-month) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| AWS | us-east-1 (Ohio) | $0.1283  | $0.023 |
| AWS | us-east-2 (N. Vriginia) | $0.1283  | $0.023 |
| AWS | us-west-2 (Oregon) | $0.1283  | $0.023 |
| AWS | eu-west-2 (London) | $0.148  | $0.024 |
| AWS | eu-central-1 (Frankfurt) | $0.1533  | $0.025 |
| AWS | eu-north-1 (Stockholm) | $0.1366  | $0.023 |
| AWS | eu-south-1 (Milan) | $0.1493  | $0.024 |
| AWS | ap-east-1 (Hong Kong) | $0.1767  | $0.025 |
| AWS | ap-southeast-1 (Singapore) | $0.1600  | $0.025 |
| AWS | af-southeast-1 (Cape Town) | $0.1693  | $0.027 |
| AWS | me-central-1 (UAE) | $0.1577  | $0.025 |
| GCP | us-east1 (South Carolina) | $0.1408  | $0.020 |
| GCP | us-west1 (Oregon) | $0.1408  | $0.020 |
| GCP | us-central1 (Iowa) | $0.1631  | $0.020 |
| GCP | europe-west2 (London) | $0.1814  | $0.023 |
| GCP | europe-west3 (Frankfurt) | $0.1814  | $0.023 |
| GCP | europe-north1 (Finland) | $0.1550 | $0.020 |
| GCP | asia-east2 (Hong Kong) | $0.1970 | $0.023 |
| GCP | asia-southeast1 (Singapore) | $0.1737 | $0.020 |
| GCP | austrilia-southeast1 (Sydney) | $0.1998 | $0.023 |
| GCP | me-central (Doha) | $0.2253 | $0.023 |

## Pricing example

Below we introduce an example to illustrate how the pricing works. Suppose you provision a RisingWave Cluster in the `us-east-1` region. The cluster consists of (1) 3 compute nodes, each equipped with 8 RWUs; (2) 3 frontend nodes, each equipped with 2 RWUs; (3) 1 meta node equipped with 4 RWUs; (4) 1 compactor node with 4 RWUs; and (5) 3 ETCD nodes, each equipped with 1 RWUs. The cluster stores an overall 20GB of data in its storage. The cluster keeps running for the entire month of 30 days. 

The base price in `us-east-1` (Ohio) region is $0.1283 per RWU-hour for compute resources and $0.023 per GB-month for storage capacities. 

Putting together, your monthly RisingWave Cloud bill will add the following costs together:

- Compute resources: $0.1283 * (3*8+3*2+4+4+3*1) * 30 * 24 = $3787.42
- Storage capacity: $0.023 * 20 = $0.46

